# Magic

Magic is the interaction of spiritual entities and forces with the physical world.

All magic in Pyre comes from some form of spirit or spiritual energy.

## Spiritual Energy

Spiritual energy, or "Mana", is generated by the physical world as it moves through time.

As the world moves through time, the future unfolds into the present, and depending on that particular future is, different types of mana are created.

For example, a pristine stream in a secluded forest would generate mana, and if the stream were poisoned, or the forest cut down, the mana generated would be reduced and/or change type.

Some types of mana are the opposite of other types, for example, fire mana opposes water mana. The two will cancel each other out.

All mana has a type, in the smae way that all light has a color. There is no such thing as "pure" mana.

Magic energy gives off a signature in the radio and microwave spectrum. Areas of high mana produce so much radio noise, radar would fail and walkie-talkies would only produce static.

## Types of Spirits

Spirits live on mana, and the type of spirit determines what type or types of mana it lives on.

Spirits enable magic by reacting with the mana generated by the physical world, allowing for magical recipes to be created that leverage their natural properties.

Gods are spirits which have become so large and powerful that they control and absorb a large amount of mana types.

Gods enable magic by trading magical effects for devotion to principles which will expand the God's mana source.

| Spirit Type | Description |
|-|-|
| Fire | |
| Water | Mana generated by the water cycle of the planet. Streams, rivers, oceans, and similar all generate water mana. Metal drainage pipes, chemical runoff, and pollutants all disrupt water mana |
| Wind | Open areas with clean air generate air mana, which travels along the wind. Air mana eventually stagnates and breaks down if it stops moving. Air mana that gets mixed with other scents will be slightly impacted by those scents. Air mana is usually found in very low density, except during storms. |
| Earth | Refers to the magic of the microbiome of the soil. |

## Disrupting Mana

Mana generation is disrupted by technology, industry, and metal. Magic energies cannot travel through radioactive shielding, such as lead.
